Okay.
NOTE CONF
Hello.
We have the red light of go because red means
NOTE CONF
go.
So, hello.
NOTE CONF
Welcome to the first actual lecture.
Um, please do do the attendance Thursday is attendance day.
NOTE CONF
Um, so that is important.
I'm going to give you another five seconds.
NOTE CONF
Nobody's doing anything.
Uh, two people back.
NOTE CONF
Uh, okay.
It's going, it's going.
NOTE CONF
Um.
So.
NOTE CONF
yes, proper linear algebra lecture first one.
So where are we in theory?
NOTE CONF
You have done the reading of section 1.1, 1.2 and
1.3.
NOTE CONF
That is the understanding that you have done that reading.
I am going to work on the assumption you have
NOTE CONF
done that reading.
Um, we are in Thursday's lecture because today's Thursday and
NOTE CONF
we are in a lecture.
We have another lecture on Friday.
NOTE CONF
On Monday, the reading.
All the quizzes are released on Monday morning.
NOTE CONF
The reading quiz you should probably do before your tutorial,
which will be next Tuesday, same as it was this
NOTE CONF
week.
And then you're going to have the practice and assessed
NOTE CONF
quizzes, um, that you need to do.
Oh, it is Wednesday I think you need to do
NOTE CONF
before Wednesday.
Um, all of that is very calculation based.
NOTE CONF
It's sit down.
Can you in this case do a load of row
NOTE CONF
reduction.
Solve some linear systems.
NOTE CONF
Next week there will be a piece of homework released.
So next week that will cover material.
NOTE CONF
From that it will have one question from this week.
One question more related to next week's content that you're
NOTE CONF
doing with Andreas.
And that is more focusing on proof skills rather than
NOTE CONF
just calculation skills.
So that's kind of where we are.
NOTE CONF
On that note, I know some people heard this on
Tuesday in the tutorials.
NOTE CONF
Please log on to stack before Monday.
So here is learn.
NOTE CONF
Hopefully you have come across this.
Anyone got no idea how to find this web page
NOTE CONF
at all?
No.
NOTE CONF
Great.
Um, if you go on to online assessments, quizzes and
NOTE CONF
lecture materials, please before Monday, do click through to that.
Uh, when we refer to stack, that is the link
NOTE CONF
we are talking about.
Eventually it should load.
NOTE CONF
Um, basically the system needs to see you before Monday
and before anything assists released because otherwise it back scene
NOTE CONF
things happen.
So fun things happen.
NOTE CONF
If you log on, please log on before Monday.
Um, normally it should hopefully be faster than that.
NOTE CONF
I'm not sure why it's not wanting to log on.
We'll give it a second.
NOTE CONF
Um, okay, so while we slightly wait for that, does
anyone have any comments on the reading?
NOTE CONF
How do we find the reading?
Was it horrible?
NOTE CONF
Okay, weird.
What was that?
NOTE CONF
It was okay.
Middling.
NOTE CONF
Are we most people middling?
I'm seeing some kind of.
NOTE CONF
I'm seeing no one jumping up and down, nodding their
head, saying it was the most wonderful reading of their
NOTE CONF
life, which, frankly, I would be surprised and questioning your
sanity if you were.
NOTE CONF
Um, but yeah, that is kind of where we were
expecting it to be somewhat familiar, maybe a different way
NOTE CONF
of writing it, different way of looking at it.
Welcome to university maths.
NOTE CONF
This first bit of that you're doing this kind of
first year, most of it the maths.
NOTE CONF
It's a lots of different ways of thinking about maths
and lots of ways of writing maths.
NOTE CONF
Um, so it should kind of the particularly the beginning.
That's the hard, the hard bit different ways of seeing
NOTE CONF
it.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
That's still not loading.
So I'm going to give up on it.
NOTE CONF
Sorry.
Um, let us return to this.
NOTE CONF
So to start with, we are going to actually think
about what is a linear equation.
NOTE CONF
Uh, so there are five equations.
Uh, and there's going to be another poll if I
NOTE CONF
can bring it up.
The bomb.
NOTE CONF
It's going to appear.
There we go.
NOTE CONF
So another poll for you to log on.
That is the poll for today where we are actually
NOTE CONF
doing content.
Doo doo doo doo doo.
NOTE CONF
Lots of people logging on.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Numbers seem to be so.
No sudden surge of numbers.
NOTE CONF
Oh.
We'll.
NOTE CONF
Wait for everyone to get on.
The bus.
NOTE CONF
So I think.
Okay, so the first question.
NOTE CONF
Is which of the following are linear?
Let us have a vote.
NOTE CONF
To give you a minute to see how we're getting
on.
NOTE CONF
Do to do.
Feel free to have a chat.
NOTE CONF
I'll give a slight clue.
It is more than one.
NOTE CONF
It is not just one of these equations that is
linear.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
I'm going to give you 10s.
NOTE CONF
Eight.
64321.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Let's see.
NOTE CONF
Um.
Cool.
NOTE CONF
So most of you all, we've got some comments.
That's exciting.
NOTE CONF
I like comments.
Let's go back to see this.
NOTE CONF
Um, so we have generally most people seem for is
linear.
NOTE CONF
Good.
That is definitely a linear equation for most definitely linear.
NOTE CONF
Uh, one is not linear.
I also agree with that.
NOTE CONF
Um, what's the comment?
It is a function of x.
NOTE CONF
Anyone else got any comments about why one is not
linear?
NOTE CONF
Yeah that's a quadratic.
So yeah definitely not.
NOTE CONF
Uh, we also seem to agree that three isn't linear.
So nine.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um.
NOTE CONF
Any ideas about why three isn't linear?
It's exponential.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Good.
NOTE CONF
There's a good exponential term in there.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, we seem a bit more conflicted between two and
to some degree, five.
NOTE CONF
There seems to be some popularity around that.
So, um, what I'm going to give you is a
NOTE CONF
minute to find someone around you and have a discussion
are two and five linear, and then we'll have another
NOTE CONF
vote.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Okay, let's try having another vote.
You can keep chatting, but feel free to give.
NOTE CONF
A.
Vote.
NOTE CONF
Okay, let's have another 10s 987543.
My seconds are very uniform.
NOTE CONF
Two.
One.
NOTE CONF
Okay, let's see for any better.
Okay, so we seem a lot happier that two is
NOTE CONF
linear.
Let's have a quick look at the comments.
NOTE CONF
Coefficient is constant.
Coefficients are constant.
NOTE CONF
Yep.
So if we look at um number three uh the
NOTE CONF
second equation we have log two and we have five
cubed.
NOTE CONF
All the coefficients.
Now both of those are functions of a number.
NOTE CONF
But a function of a number is just another number.
So log three.
NOTE CONF
Five cubed.
Five cubes 125.
NOTE CONF
No idea what log three is off the top of
my head, but they are just numbers.
NOTE CONF
So yeah, good.
It is linear because it is.
NOTE CONF
I like that answer.
Uh, good.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, we still seem a bit conflicted about the last
NOTE CONF
one.
Let's see.
NOTE CONF
Even if it's invalid, it's still linear variables.
All power of one.
NOTE CONF
It's linear with no solution.
Those are all true.
NOTE CONF
It is an inconsistent linear equation.
It's not true.
NOTE CONF
It's definitely not true.
Zero does not equal to.
NOTE CONF
It is a well-known statement or an invalid statement.
But it is definitely a linear equation.
NOTE CONF
Inconsistent.
But linear is what we're going to call that.
NOTE CONF
So.
It has no solutions, but it is linear.
NOTE CONF
Good.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, so another question.
There you go.
NOTE CONF
The three linear equations two, four and five.
Um, okay.
NOTE CONF
So following on from that, true or false or solutions
to a linear equation lie on a straight line.
NOTE CONF
What are we thinking?
True or false?
NOTE CONF
Again feel free to have a chat with your neighbour.
See how we feel.
NOTE CONF
To a picture.
Maybe.
NOTE CONF
Oh, okay.
We've got a good number of votes.
NOTE CONF
Let's have another 20s.
Oh, you've all gone quiet.
NOTE CONF
Okay, maybe we don't need 20s.
Maybe you have collectively decided we've had enough.
NOTE CONF
Um.
And let us see what we're going to do.
NOTE CONF
Um.
Oh, okay.
NOTE CONF
Interesting.
Again, we're a bit conflicted, which is good.
NOTE CONF
We like this.
We're asking more interesting questions.
NOTE CONF
Um, so let's have a look at the comments.
Line equals linear.
NOTE CONF
Good.
Um, line equals linear.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
So Norm, at school you probably did hear that a
NOTE CONF
line is a linear thing.
Line's linear.
NOTE CONF
Kind of in the linguistics.
Uh, what about false?
NOTE CONF
Um, it can be in higher dimensions.
Could lie on a plane.
NOTE CONF
High dimensions.
Only false when solutions do not exist.
NOTE CONF
That's a very good point.
If you've got zero x plus zero, y equals two.
NOTE CONF
Those solutions don't lie on a line.
Those solutions don't exist.
NOTE CONF
Um, you definitely can't draw solutions.
So maybe I should.
NOTE CONF
Maybe a better question would be all solutions to a
consistent linear equation line a straight line.
NOTE CONF
Um, okay.
So let's give this a bit of a bit of
NOTE CONF
a think.
Uh, I'm going to start writing.
NOTE CONF
So yeah.
Let me if my at the back particularly the back
NOTE CONF
if my handwriting goes a bit small.
Uh, no, I want that to be there.
NOTE CONF
Um, let us consider this equation.
Hopefully we will all agree that this is a linear
NOTE CONF
equation.
Can we all see that?
NOTE CONF
Oh we can I hope.
Okay, so that is a linear equation.
NOTE CONF
Can anyone think of a solution to that equation.
Anyone want to yell out an x y, z that
NOTE CONF
satisfy that zero?
Good.
NOTE CONF
There's a solution.
000 definitely satisfies that.
NOTE CONF
Anybody think of another one.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
111.
Another good one.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Another one.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Two.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
We could keep going.
NOTE CONF
121.
One two.
NOTE CONF
Zero even.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
That's a better one.
That's actually a solution.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Those are three solutions.
NOTE CONF
Let's draw out some axes.
So we have oh I've got different coloured pens.
NOTE CONF
We've got the origin.
We've got 111 which is kind of here.
NOTE CONF
And we've got one, two zero, which is kind of
there.
NOTE CONF
Do we think those all lie on a line?
No, no, those are quite clearly two different lines.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So we're.
NOTE CONF
False.
Sorry everybody.
NOTE CONF
Linear does not mean lying.
I'm a horrible human being for even asking you that
NOTE CONF
question.
Linguistics is nonsense.
NOTE CONF
Um, so let us actually think about what else we
can do here.
NOTE CONF
Where do those solutions lie?
Uh, I don't want to go there.
NOTE CONF
So there we go.
Here is, um.
NOTE CONF
Oh, that's not quite what I want to do yet.
I want to stick here.
NOTE CONF
Um, let's let's think about this solution.
I could have let me in the reading, we saw
NOTE CONF
that we could introduce parameters.
So kind of other letters that we can write our
NOTE CONF
solution terms of.
So there is a parameter x is a parameter s.
NOTE CONF
All I have said is x equals s.
It's nothing actually that fundamental.
NOTE CONF
I could also say y equals r.
There you go.
NOTE CONF
It's another parameter.
Having just said, none of this is very fundamental, which
NOTE CONF
let's then write down what z equals.
If z is going to satisfy this and x equals
NOTE CONF
s and y equals r, what z got to equal
in terms of my parameters to s minus r.
NOTE CONF
Perfect okay.
So far so not terrible.
NOTE CONF
Hopefully.
Um but now let us have a have a quick
NOTE CONF
look.
Have people seen GeoGebra before.
NOTE CONF
Hands up if you've seen GeoGebra before.
Yeah that's a good number of you.
NOTE CONF
Cool.
It's really fun.
NOTE CONF
Go and play with it.
It's a kind of you can do loads of stuff
NOTE CONF
with it and it's really good for linear algebra, so
we will probably be using it quite a lot.
NOTE CONF
Um, Anyway, so here's my point.
So I could write a solution to this point is
NOTE CONF
going to look like x, y, z.
And it's going to look like what if x is
NOTE CONF
S, y is r and z is two s minus
r.
NOTE CONF
That's what all solutions are going to look like.
So there's my point there.
NOTE CONF
And I've got my smear and they can change.
There we go.
NOTE CONF
So there are my solutions.
All possible solutions running out.
NOTE CONF
They're definitely not on a line.
What kind of shape are they?
NOTE CONF
Anybody got any ideas?
But what we are where all these solutions actually do
NOTE CONF
lie.
In.
NOTE CONF
A plane.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Look, if I line this up now, can I line
it up?
NOTE CONF
There we go.
It looks like a line there, but in three dimensions,
NOTE CONF
it's a plane.
In fact, there is the plane that we are scooting
NOTE CONF
around them.
So, um, what we actually have is we have three
NOTE CONF
variables.
And two parameters.
NOTE CONF
Or sometimes people call these free variables because they're free
to be whatever we want.
NOTE CONF
In fact, in GeoGebra, I'm setting them.
I set them to be between -3 and 3, minus
NOTE CONF
two and four, simply because it kind of made the
screen look pretty.
NOTE CONF
But they could be anything.
They could go up to a thousand, a million, whatever.
NOTE CONF
Um, it's just they didn't fit on screen then.
But these are free parameters.
NOTE CONF
They can be whatever.
They can scroll through things, they can do weird and
NOTE CONF
wonderful things.
Um, and our solutions lie in a two dimensional plane.
NOTE CONF
So actually, um, we can say more generally that a
linear equation.
NOTE CONF
In n variables.
Has its solutions lying in a n minus one dimensional
NOTE CONF
plane or hyperplane.
Sometimes we call them hyperplane if it's kind of the
NOTE CONF
posh maths word.
Pardon?
NOTE CONF
Oh, not on the screen.
There we go.
NOTE CONF
That's now on the screen.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Feel free to yell at me when something falls off
NOTE CONF
the screen.
Um, yes.
NOTE CONF
So sometimes we call it call this a hyperplane.
Um, if.
NOTE CONF
It's.
Uh, you might see that language if it's kind of
NOTE CONF
three, 4 or 5 dimensions because it's not necessarily a
plane in the way you think of a plane.
NOTE CONF
Um, cool.
And that can people kind of understand why?
NOTE CONF
If we have two variables, why are we going to
have a two dimensional plane?
NOTE CONF
What are my two three variables?
Let me do.
NOTE CONF
They let me go in two directions.
So if we think if we proceed the vector equation
NOTE CONF
of a plane where you have a point on the
plane, and then you might have t times another vector
NOTE CONF
that lets you go in one direction, and then you
might have s times another vector that lets you go
NOTE CONF
in another direction.
There you go.
NOTE CONF
Two dimensions.
I can walk in two dimensions.
NOTE CONF
I'm not stuck in one dimension in a line.
So the number of free variables tells me how many
NOTE CONF
directions I can move in.
And that's why we're going to lie on a however
NOTE CONF
many dimensional plane.
Everyone happy so far?
NOTE CONF
Wonderful.
Do we have any questions or thoughts?
NOTE CONF
Feelings?
Comments?
NOTE CONF
Complaints?
No.
NOTE CONF
Feel free to interrupt at any point.
This is very much a kind of interactive thing.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so let us now return to our.
Let's stop that and let us return to, uh, here.
NOTE CONF
So I gave the question away there.
I can make that statement true by saying it's happening
NOTE CONF
in two variables.
It is true that a solution to a linear equation
NOTE CONF
in two variables lie on a line, provided they exist.
Um.
NOTE CONF
Cool.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um.
What about though?
NOTE CONF
Well, so bear that in mind.
How many solutions or what dimension Did the solutions of
NOTE CONF
x plus two y equal four.
Where do they lie?
NOTE CONF
On a line.
Because it literally says if you have two variables and
NOTE CONF
two linear equation two variables, they lie on a line,
okay.
NOTE CONF
They lie on a line.
Let's go back to GeoGebra.
NOTE CONF
Uh.
Useful thing.
NOTE CONF
There we go.
I can type in x plus two, y equals four.
NOTE CONF
Oops, I can't actually and I'm not in the place
I want to be.
NOTE CONF
X plus two y equals four.
And nothing's appearing.
NOTE CONF
That's worrying.
Oh dear.
NOTE CONF
This is why technology you shouldn't trust technology.
There we go.
NOTE CONF
That looks better.
Right?
NOTE CONF
Uh, x plus two Y equals four.
That's not a line.
NOTE CONF
You all just said.
You just said on the board that the solution should
NOTE CONF
lie on a line.
Why am I getting a plane?
NOTE CONF
It's GeoGebra wrong.
Yes.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
So you do have to be really careful that.
NOTE CONF
Yes, that looks like an equation, a linear equation, two
variables.
NOTE CONF
But that doesn't necessarily mean all we're working with is
two variables.
NOTE CONF
In this case, z could be anything.
So there's a really sneaky thing that mathematicians can do
NOTE CONF
where we can say x plus two y equals four.
Go away and solve that.
NOTE CONF
But how many what space are you working in?
Are you working in just x and Y?
NOTE CONF
In which case that's not too bad.
Or have you got Z?
NOTE CONF
Or have you got a, b c d e f
g?
NOTE CONF
How?
So you need to be aware of how many variables
NOTE CONF
you've got in the background.
How many are in your back pocket.
NOTE CONF
You might only be playing with two of them, but
if you've got three of them in play, then that
NOTE CONF
third one is still doing something.
Okay, so everything comes with a slight health warning.
NOTE CONF
Be aware of how many dimensions you're actually working with.
Okay, so Um, that's linear equations.
NOTE CONF
What about system of linear equations?
How many solutions can a system of two equations in
NOTE CONF
two variables.
So I'm saying now we've only got x and y.
NOTE CONF
There is no hidden z sneaking around.
How many solutions can that possibly have?
NOTE CONF
Zero, one and infinity.
Good.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
So how can we have zero?
NOTE CONF
Yes.
If y two linear equations.
NOTE CONF
What kind of parallel then they never cross.
How about how would I get one solution when they.
NOTE CONF
Cos.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
There we go.
One solution.
NOTE CONF
And what was the third answer.
Infinity.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Cool.
NOTE CONF
When do I get infinity?
When it's the same line.
NOTE CONF
Good.
So if we kind of think about this, this is
NOTE CONF
a going back to a kind of dimension counting.
Here we've got one dimension of solutions.
NOTE CONF
Here we've got zero dimensions.
And here we just have no solutions.
NOTE CONF
So a point is a zero dimensional thing.
I remember this being a slightly weird thing to get
NOTE CONF
my head around.
The reason being, let's go back to a me crab
NOTE CONF
crawling along the stage.
If I am a point, how many directions can I
NOTE CONF
move in?
None.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, there were no free parameters.
I'm stuck here and I can't move, which is a
NOTE CONF
bit annoying if I've got to spend the rest of
the lecture here.
NOTE CONF
And so I'm going to become a line again.
Um, so yes, zero dimensions if you've got no directions
NOTE CONF
to move in.
So free parameters are actually three variables or parameters, depending
NOTE CONF
on how you want to call them, are quite important
because they tell you how how dimensional your spaces.
NOTE CONF
Um, so if we have a system of equations, we've
seen that if we only had a linear equation provided
NOTE CONF
it was consistent, we got a one dimensional space.
So if we adding equations.
NOTE CONF
Can not always but it can reduce the dimension.
Of the space we're working in of the space of
NOTE CONF
solutions.
By well one adding I suppose I should say adding
NOTE CONF
an equation reduces it by one can reduce it by
one.
NOTE CONF
Not always.
Here we added another equation And it didn't.
NOTE CONF
So it is not always true.
That's gone off the screen.
NOTE CONF
Thank you.
Do yell at me.
NOTE CONF
There we go.
That's all on the screen.
NOTE CONF
Wonderful.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um.
So.
NOTE CONF
Let us, uh, return to to our first GeoGebra.
There we.
NOTE CONF
Go.
Oh, everything's disappeared again.
NOTE CONF
Please reload sensibly.
There we go.
NOTE CONF
So that was our plane of solutions that we had.
Let me now add a second plane and I'm going
NOTE CONF
to add.
What am I going to add?
NOTE CONF
I'm going to add the plane two x minus y
minus z equals zero.
NOTE CONF
So we just to note before we had x plus
two y minus z equals zero.
NOTE CONF
Um.
And now we're adding this.
NOTE CONF
No we didn't.
This is the one we had before.
NOTE CONF
This is the first one.
And now we're going to add this second one.
NOTE CONF
So we've now got a system of two linear equations
and three unknowns.
NOTE CONF
So if I add to this equation what are we
going to be x plus two y minus z equals
NOTE CONF
zero.
Cool.
NOTE CONF
And let's just change the colour of that so it's
easier to see.
NOTE CONF
Uh there we.
Go.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So we have two planes.
NOTE CONF
Um, what dimension are we expecting?
The space of solutions to be one dimension, a line.
NOTE CONF
In fact, we can see it.
Line.
NOTE CONF
It's where these two planes cross, Which is what we're
expecting.
NOTE CONF
Um, and actually we can see this in terms of
the parameter.
NOTE CONF
So remember, if we remember before we had x equals
s, y equals r and we then had z equals
NOTE CONF
to s minus r.
If we add these to our second equation uh we're
NOTE CONF
then going to have well s plus two lots of
ys.
NOTE CONF
So two r minus z.
So minus two s minus r equals zero.
NOTE CONF
Can simplify that up I'm going to get three r
minus s I do believe.
NOTE CONF
Minus.
Minus one.
NOTE CONF
What minus minus is a.
So I get two uh minus minus r.
NOTE CONF
So three r and s minus two s is minus
s.
NOTE CONF
Am I wrong?
I might be wrong.
NOTE CONF
I'm right.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Sorry.
It's really weird standing up here.
NOTE CONF
Suddenly you lose the ability to do somewhat maths.
Okay, so that now means s equals to the R,
NOTE CONF
okay.
So that means the space of solutions before we had
NOTE CONF
them as SR2S minus r.
But this extra equation lets us write one of those
NOTE CONF
parameters in terms of the other.
So now I can get the equation of my line
NOTE CONF
as well S is three r.
So this can be three r or 3 or 4
NOTE CONF
times two is six r minus r is five r.
So there we go.
NOTE CONF
I now have a space with one parameter.
So what dimension am I one.
NOTE CONF
Yeah I can move in a line.
That is all good.
NOTE CONF
Cool.
Everybody happy so far then?
NOTE CONF
Um, so yeah.
So we'll talk about this a bit more tomorrow.
NOTE CONF
But the rank of um, the system of the augmented
matrix associated to the system.
NOTE CONF
One thing it's kind of doing is counting the I'm
going to write here meaningful.
NOTE CONF
Equations in your system.
So if you've got two, um, two lines that are
NOTE CONF
the same, the rank is not going to count it
twice.
NOTE CONF
It's only counting the ones that actually contribute to the
solution is one way of kind of thinking about rank
NOTE CONF
that can be quite helpful.
Good.
NOTE CONF
Everyone happy so far?
Any questions?
NOTE CONF
Does anyone have a question?
No.
NOTE CONF
So in the reading this then led to theorem 1.2.2.
So hopefully we saw this in the reading.
NOTE CONF
Um, if a system of m equations in n variables.
So it makes it quite clear how many variables you're
NOTE CONF
working in.
So even if all your equations look like they're only
NOTE CONF
in two variables again, health warning check how many you
were actually working in.
NOTE CONF
Are you in three dimensions?
Four dimensions.
NOTE CONF
Five dimensions okay.
We want these to be consistent.
NOTE CONF
What does consistent mean has a solution.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
So inconsistent means we have no solutions.
Consistent means has solutions.
NOTE CONF
At least one solution okay.
And we're going to say the rank is are.
NOTE CONF
So we're counting the number of meaningful equations.
Then as a generalisation of that statement I wrote up
NOTE CONF
some time ago in the box which I've now lost
somewhere.
NOTE CONF
Um, this first point is exactly what I wrote.
If we've only got one equation.
NOTE CONF
The set of solutions line in n minus r dimensional
space.
NOTE CONF
So in.
Actually if you in the reading it says has n
NOTE CONF
minus r parameters.
But I think we've established number of parameters equals dimension.
NOTE CONF
I will stop doing that dance eventually.
Um and this is the big, big theorem that one
NOTE CONF
of the big themes of this week's reading.
Uh, and the first part's the kind of important part,
NOTE CONF
uh, two and three follow immediately.
Why, if n equals r, why is there a unique
NOTE CONF
solution?
Because all three variables.
NOTE CONF
Yeah n minus r equal to zero.
Exactly.
NOTE CONF
So there were no free variables I'm a point.
My point is a unique solution if I'm anything other
NOTE CONF
than a point.
And provided I exist, if I'm on a line, how
NOTE CONF
many solutions are there on the line?
Infinitely many.
NOTE CONF
If I'm on a plane, there are infinitely many.
If I'm in a 264 dimensional hyperplane.
NOTE CONF
There are definitely infinitely many solutions, so the only time
there is a unique solution is when the number of
NOTE CONF
all of your equations equal the number of variables, and
all of them are contributing to that answer.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Good.
NOTE CONF
Um.
So next question, we are moving on to a slightly
NOTE CONF
different bit.
Now that's the end of that bit.
NOTE CONF
Um, you may be pleased to know.
So another question.
NOTE CONF
Um.
This one I'm going to give you a bit longer
NOTE CONF
for now.
What are you seeing?
NOTE CONF
Um, if there is a system of equations, three equations
in three unknowns.
NOTE CONF
I'm only in three dimensions.
Um, and my question.
NOTE CONF
Is.
Um.
NOTE CONF
Firstly turn to your neighbour and find the augmented matrix.
What is the augmented matrix.
NOTE CONF
And then I'm going to give you four options.
One of which one of these does not come from
NOTE CONF
a raw operation.
I'm going to give you a while for this because
NOTE CONF
this is a bit convoluted.
Let us first find the augmented matrix and then we'll
NOTE CONF
we'll do some more operations.
So if you will write your augmented matrix down actually
NOTE CONF
on, um.
On, on a piece of paper and hold it up
NOTE CONF
when you're done or a tablet or something.
And we'll see.
NOTE CONF
How.
We get on.
NOTE CONF
So what is the augmented matrix?
Yes.
NOTE CONF
Pardon.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
No.
So we're just writing down on a piece of paper
NOTE CONF
just the augmented matrix to begin with.
Okay, let's.
NOTE CONF
If you're done, try holding it up and let me.
I'm going to have to come and.
NOTE CONF
Oh.
What are we getting for the augmented matrix?
NOTE CONF
Anyone going to hold anything up for me?
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Things are looking looking good.
Okay, I'm just going to run around the whole lecture
NOTE CONF
theatre.
Feel free to wave something at me.
NOTE CONF
Good.
We're looking good.
NOTE CONF
Good.
I'm liking these answers.
NOTE CONF
I now have to run around the whole while.
And this was a mistake.
NOTE CONF
Good.
Nice.
NOTE CONF
Excellent.
We all seem happy with the augmented matrices.
NOTE CONF
What are we on this side?
Excellent.
NOTE CONF
Good.
Okay, so too many stairs.
NOTE CONF
There are a lot of you.
Wonderful.
NOTE CONF
Excellent.
Okay, so I think nearly all of you got the
NOTE CONF
right answer there.
Which is.
NOTE CONF
Good.
Um, so let us now do the go back to
NOTE CONF
our poll.
There were four matrices.
NOTE CONF
I have performed some kind of operation on all of
them.
NOTE CONF
Three of them are a valid row operation.
One of them is something I made up.
NOTE CONF
Which one did I make up?
Again, I'm going to give you another couple of minutes
NOTE CONF
to sit and work through because it is a bit
tricky.
NOTE CONF
This one.
What have I done to each of these matrices from
NOTE CONF
the augmented matrix?
Okay, I'm going to give you another 30s.
NOTE CONF
And then.
And then we'll discuss this a bit.
NOTE CONF
It's absolutely fine if you don't know the answer we
are going to go through it.
NOTE CONF
So, um, you don't have to vote, but it would
be nice if you did vote.
NOTE CONF
Even a wrong answer is good.
Put some fun comments in.
NOTE CONF
Everything's anonymous so it doesn't really matter.
Right.
NOTE CONF
I'm going to give you another 15 seconds.
Ten.
NOTE CONF
Eight.
Six.
NOTE CONF
Five.
Four.
NOTE CONF
Three.
Two and one.
NOTE CONF
Cool.
Okay, right.
NOTE CONF
I'm liking this.
So most people who voted, we seem to have a
NOTE CONF
clear a clear.
There seems to be one clear winner.
NOTE CONF
One that seems happier than the rest.
And actually, that is the correct answer.
NOTE CONF
So yay!
But let's just discuss it.
NOTE CONF
Um, so in the first one, what did we do?
What did I do for the first matrix?
NOTE CONF
So I went from, oh, hang on, I now have
a problem.
NOTE CONF
You can't see the matrices.
Let's do this.
NOTE CONF
Um.
So how did I get from the augmented matrix to
NOTE CONF
the matrix?
111111 minus two three halves 2112.
NOTE CONF
Yes.
Divided by two I divided by one by two.
NOTE CONF
So we have a slightly weird way of writing this.
Traditionally, and interestingly, the textbook does not touch this.
NOTE CONF
So, um, the way we like writing this, we don't
write equals between row operations because the matrices are not
NOTE CONF
equal.
Please do not write an equal sign between two matrices
NOTE CONF
as you row do a row operation, because.
That's.
NOTE CONF
Not right.
We tend to write arrows instead, and we like to
NOTE CONF
label these arrows with what we're doing because as you
just found out, if someone just writes out some operations,
NOTE CONF
it can be quite hard to work out what's going
on and backwards engineer it.
NOTE CONF
So for everyone sake, let's write it out quite clearly.
And we do it in this really weird way.
NOTE CONF
We, um, you cannot see.
There we go.
NOTE CONF
I will learn one day.
So in this first one, we took row two, and
NOTE CONF
we're saying the new row two is equivalent to the
old row two.
NOTE CONF
I've written this is half of the old row two.
So we do this really weird thing.
NOTE CONF
If we kind of say row two is going to
half of row two, but one's the new row two
NOTE CONF
and one's the old row two.
And then that gives us I'm not going to write
NOTE CONF
it out, but the matrix in one.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
What do we do for the second one?
Yeah, we swapped one and three.
NOTE CONF
So this one's a nicer way of writing it.
We just write kind of.
NOTE CONF
We swapped row one and three.
We just do an arrow.
NOTE CONF
There's no new old stuff.
What do we do for row three?
NOTE CONF
Uh, vector matrix three.
It's not vector.
NOTE CONF
Art.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Row one and three.
So here.
NOTE CONF
Row three.
That's two.
NOTE CONF
Row three.
The new row three became row three plus row one.
NOTE CONF
You don't need to write old and new above them
each time.
NOTE CONF
I'm doing it to make it clear, but, um.
Cool.
NOTE CONF
Can anyone actually work out how I got to vector
four?
NOTE CONF
I did, actually, that is sensible.
I didn't just pick numbers out of thin air.
NOTE CONF
Any ideas.
Yet?
NOTE CONF
You multiply the coefficients of the above.
Yeah, exactly.
NOTE CONF
I have no idea how you'd write that down, because
it's weird, but I essentially timed.
NOTE CONF
I made new row three old, rowed three times, row
two times in some.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Um, cool.
NOTE CONF
So that's.
Uh, that's nonsense.
NOTE CONF
That is not an elementary row operation.
Please do not try times in rows together.
NOTE CONF
You can times them by a scalar like we did
at the beginning.
NOTE CONF
But those are the three options we can swap.
We can scale a multiply.
NOTE CONF
And we can add those are three valid row operations
okay.
NOTE CONF
Are we all happy there.
Does anyone have any questions or thoughts.
NOTE CONF
Feelings.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Combine them.
Yeah, you can combine them.
NOTE CONF
Try not to combine.
I wouldn't combine swap with the other two.
NOTE CONF
But you could do a linear combination.
So you could say all three plus one half of
NOTE CONF
row two for example.
Um, but yeah, don't go crazy because.
NOTE CONF
The.
Your tutor has to mark your homework and they have
NOTE CONF
to be able to somehow work out what you've done.
Um.
NOTE CONF
So, yeah, try not to go too crazy.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
We are nearly at times, so I'm going to save
that for next time.
NOTE CONF
Uh, we're going to do one more poll.
Um.
NOTE CONF
Slightly to help me design what to do.
Um, hang on.
NOTE CONF
I'm just going to change this poll slightly, uh, slightly,
to help me design what we want to do tomorrow.
NOTE CONF
But there were three topics.
How we feeling about those three topics?
NOTE CONF
Do we know what a linear system is?
Do we know when linear equations are equivalent or systems
NOTE CONF
of linear equations equivalent?
And can we carry out elementary row operations?
NOTE CONF
This is mainly to help me decide what we want
to do tomorrow.
NOTE CONF
We probably don't want to see the answers.
Let's hide the results.
NOTE CONF
There we go.
Um.
NOTE CONF
Oh, is there anything else?
Does anyone else have anything they really, really want me
NOTE CONF
to go through tomorrow.
I'm happy to feel free to come up to me
NOTE CONF
at the end.
Um, if there's something you want to do.
NOTE CONF
Otherwise, I'm going to give you an extra 30s there.
Um, yeah.
NOTE CONF
Thank you for coming.
I will see you tomorrow.
NOTE CONF